88. Merge Sorted Array
难度
简单

https://leetcode-cn.com/problems/merge-sorted-array/

You are given two integer arrays nums1 and nums2, sorted in non-decreasing order, and two integers m and n, representing the number of elements in nums1 and nums2 respectively.

Merge nums1 and nums2 into a single array sorted in non-decreasing order.

The final sorted array should not be returned by the function, but instead be stored inside the array nums1. To accommodate this, nums1 has a length of m + n, where the first m elements denote the elements that should be merged, and the last n elements are set to 0 and should be ignored. nums2 has a length of n.

 
```
Example 1:

Input: nums1 = [1,2,3,0,0,0], m = 3, nums2 = [2,5,6], n = 3
Output: [1,2,2,3,5,6]
Explanation: The arrays we are merging are [1,2,3] and [2,5,6].
The result of the merge is [1,2,2,3,5,6] with the underlined elements coming from nums1.

Example 2:

Input: nums1 = [1], m = 1, nums2 = [], n = 0
Output: [1]
Explanation: The arrays we are merging are [1] and [].
The result of the merge is [1].

Example 3:

Input: nums1 = [0], m = 0, nums2 = [1], n = 1
Output: [1]
Explanation: The arrays we are merging are [] and [1].
The result of the merge is [1].
Note that because m = 0, there are no elements in nums1. The 0 is only there to ensure the merge result can fit in nums1.
 

Constraints:

nums1.length == m + n
nums2.length == n
0 <= m, n <= 200
1 <= m + n <= 200
-109 <= nums1[i], nums2[j] <= 109
``` 

Follow up: Can you come up with an algorithm that runs in O(m + n) time?


相关企业

Facebook|66

亚马逊 Amazon|9

字节跳动|8

微软 Microsoft|6

小米集团|5


相关标签
- Array
- Two Pointers
- Sorting

相似题目
- Merge Two Sorted Lists 简单
- Squares of a Sorted Array
简单
- Interval List Intersections
中等

隐藏提示1
You can easily solve this problem if you simply think about two elements at a time rather than two arrays. We know that each of the individual arrays is sorted. What we don't know is how they will intertwine. Can we take a local decision and arrive at an optimal solution?

显示提示2
If you simply consider one element each at a time from the two arrays and make a decision and proceed accordingly, you will arrive at the optimal solution.